Driscoll, Kevin. "The Birth of the Modem World." Slate. Last modified September 7, 2022. Accessed April 9, 2023. https://slate.com/technology/2022/09/modem-world-bbs-internet-history.html
#internet #memex3 #BBS #wargames 

## Summary 

The article "Modem World: How BBSes paved the way for the internet we know and love" discusses the Bulletin Board System [[BBS]] and its impact on the internet and our society.  Driscoll emphasizes how and why BBS's were so important to the growth of the internet. He talks about several ways that online communities were made through BBS's which helped people to express their ideas and opinions something that previously wasnt able to be done unless you were considered an important person. I find that this evolves concepts that [[Alexander Graham Bell]] wouldve wanted his telephone to be able to do as he wanted to use the telephone to bridge communication between everyone including people with impaired hearing which was now possible through the internet and things such as the BBS. Driscoll then explains how the BBS's were run by groups of passionate people who wanted to collaborate and help shape their own spaces together.

## Highlights

-Despite the internet’s staggering scale and global reach, its folk histories are surprisingly narrow. This mismatch reflects the uncertain definition of “the internet.” When nonexperts look for internet origin stories, they want to know about the internet as they know it, the internet they carry around in their pockets, the internet they turn to, day after day
- I believe this links back to our course were in the initial lectures we we looking for alternate perspectives such as multiple countries during the telephone era as well as learning about women's perspective during the history of the computer. Things such as these are important for people to learn about since they still are apart of the history and help give a more complete picture.
- This also links to Sophies memex https://probablyanxious.github.io/hist1900-memex/Source%20Notes/When%20Computers%20Were%20Women/ where she says "Light works to illuminate the erasure of women in the history of computing in the article _When Computers Were Women_, and how this erasure perpetuates the notion that women are unfit or uninterested in STEM fields to this day. This article explores how the work of women in the field of computing was minimized despite its complexity and significance." since this was a sort of turn around point where women could slowly show their intrests in things such as computers or the internet even if it wasnt exactly in broad daylight.
-Because they foreshadowed the intensely personal and interactive blogs, forums, and social media platforms that emerged later, exploring how these communities developed and sustained themselves not only provides a fuller history of the internet, but offers insights into how we might build healthier online communities that are more just, equitable, and inclusive.
- I believe this highlights why the BBS is important as now communication and being able to voice your opinions freely with others is major reason why the internet is very popular and also has helped shape the world and change many aspects of societies and cultures.
-At the core of this history is a rather strange peripheral: the dial-up modem. In the 1980s, “modem” referred to a device for converting a stream of digital pulses from a computer into an audible signal for transmission over a standard telephone line, allowing computers to relay information via telephone.
- I highlighted this as it shows how even the BBS can be related back to [[Alexander Graham Bell]] and the telephone as it shows how the BBS is a natural evolution of the telephone.
-Early on, most people called in from paper-based teleprinters, but these were soon replaced by PCs with video displays and “terminal emulation” software.
- Shows how initially at least the history of computers and the history of the internet went hand in hand.
-Thousands of readers did, and soon new bulletin boards were being announced around North America and Europe. Each new BBS tweaked the core concept of the computerized bulletin board, adding features for trading files or playing games, implementing rules regarding user behavior, and expressing the local culture and personality of its owners. Most were free to use, save for the cost of placing a long-distance call.
- I believe that each BBS being able to be tweaked to be exactly the way the users wanted it to be this goes back to [[@As We May Think-Source Note]] where the internet was suppossed to be much  more interavtive letting each user create their own "Garden".
-In movie theaters, the Cold War thriller WarGames showed its two young protagonists using a modem and microcomputer to change their grades, download games, and almost start World War III. It was the first time that Hollywood had depicted computers and computer networks as tools of exploration, play, personal identity, and teen mischief. Over the next year, BBSs and commercial services alike saw a surge in new users as teens attached modems to their home computers 
- I highlighted this as it goes into WarGames which was discussed in the [[Mar 20]] lecture
-No such luck for rural users: If you were the only amateur astronomer in your area, there might not be anyone on the local boards for you to chat with.
- Find it interesting that people living in rural areas still have issues with internet even if they arent nearly as bad.
-On average, the demographics of the modem world fit the stereotype of the 1980s computer geek: young, white, middle-class males. But as PCs became more common, BBS technology spread beyond enthusiasts to serve other groups of people with a more urgent need for alternative media. By the start of the 1990s, BBS networks organized around shared identities, cultural interests, and political commitments had become especially vibrant spaces for socializing, organizing, and sharing resources.
- From my perspective this seems like the birth of the modern internet in terms of being able to find communities that have shared interests/beleifs as well as more women in tech fields such as [[Pam Hardt]].
-Forgetting has high stakes. As the internet becomes the compulsory infrastructure of everyday life, the stories we tell about its origins are more important than ever.
- I think this more highlights how important it is for us to educate people on things such as the BBS so that way we dont forget.